this is an informal open-ended book
review video of Mary condos
do we even know the title of the book
the joy life-changing magic of tidying
up I was gonna like it's something like
the joy of cleaning your up words I
don't even know the joy the joy of
getting your together
look the thing I want to say kicking off
I don't have any real agenda here I mean
I could say broadly it was a lot less
awful than I thought it was gonna be but
the other surprise is this is not a book
about minimalism this is a book about
animism I think if you're being honest
this is a book and toward the end to
tell you to greet your house she grew up
she spent five years working in a Shinto
shrine and she literally believes that
when you touch your clothes you're
transmitting energy to them she has all
this scattered through the book
about her beliefs in magical trinkets
and magical energy transfer and you know
it's it's animism and you know yeah as
you say actually literally talking to
her the house talking to inanimate
objects talking to furniture try
touching and transfer energy in the
furniture and you know laying on hands
healing you know healing magic through
touching this is animism you know this
is an animist worldview and like Japan
is maybe a uniquely tolerant culture or
just a uniquely quirky and eccentric
culture in terms of integrating animism
into modern life like I've lived in Laos
even though in Laos we do have a lot of
traditional old-school religious beliefs
look about ghosts and spirits we really
don't have animism in that sense you
know like even though people do believe
there are ghosts hiding in things we
don't have this not like this this
Japanese form of animism we're like
literally the shirt you own as animist a
part know people in Laos or not like
that about clothing remember I didn't
read this book recently I read it last
summer but yeah I do remember how she
was discussing donating clothes and the
clothes fines there their next spiritual
home basic right like
how that is good for you to do like to
donate clothes because if they're not
really serving group serving their
purpose with you they can serve their
purpose with another person right so I
mean the the the overall surprise for me
I guess was that okay this book is
written with a certain type of reader in
mind you know kind of period they assume
that you're a certain kind of nebbish
compulsive person who stored up a lot of
goods Sookie I should give a specific
example so she says like she assumes
that most of her clients are people who
live in Tokyo and who have parents with
a larger house in the countryside and
they store their goods are their parents
now I'm not hating on it it's just an
assumption those are the types of people
she works with those people you know and
they send things to be stored with with
their parents like my assumptions which
I have to I have to be aware of I have
to kind of fight against my own
assumptions like you know I have to
challenge my own assumptions about
people but like in terms of my
generation of people have known coming
up the degree of kind of casual
homelessness that's presumed for my
generation university educated people
who have never owned a home who have
never owned a car in many cases who
moved from one place to another even if
it's just within Canada who
coast-to-coast of in Canada are looking
for work I don't know people who've been
able to hold on to and amass even baby
photos you know what I mean which is
something she deals with at length let
alone the types of possessions she's
talking about here so I'm not heating on
it but it was a surprise to me that was
like I thought this was gonna be a
manifesto for minimalism that's what I
thought was gonna counter and it's not
on the one hand it's really animus and
not minimalism and the other hand this
is really not a message for everybody
it's a message for a certain type of
personality from a certain type of
socio-economic background which I'm not
from and the people I went to high
school with and I went to college with
are not from like I don't know those be
they're out there they're out there in
the suburbs
you know amassing huge piles of
sentimental objects and photographs and
old video games or whatever it is you
know what I mean I'm sure there are
people this book speaks to and obviously
it's
over a million copies and so on but to
me if anything it made sharper that kind
of tragedy that the world as I see it
I'm not talking about poor people we're
talking about middle class and even rich
people have known the the people I've
known they they have nothing you know I
mean they go on from a BA to a life of
this kind of you know semi homeless
wandering and never find permanent or
durable employment they go from one gig
including people with PhDs we know so
many people with PhDs like this
shuffling around from one short-term
geek to another never really amass
anything one Airbnb after another you
know what I mean like and in some ways
that's a beautiful life with a lot of
it's very mentally stimulating of you
know your horizons are always changing
you're definitely not stuck in the same
cubicle at the same company for twenty
years but to me if anything this brought
home like wow this is this is talking to
a whole demographic that I I only know
if you like sitcoms I don't know people
like this I see them represented in
sitcoms I don't know them in real life
yeah I don't have the same experience as
you well I know from you know we were
just talking about potentially moving to
Victoria and you were just saying like I
don't want to move to an apartment in
furnish an apartment again and then move
out it less than a year later and have
to throw out the stuff and go to another
apartment furnish another apartment
yeah like you really have lived like a
nomadic lifestyle in that way more than
more than I have because I grew up you
know in the same house and you know my
parents still have all you know baby
clothes and not all papers but like baby
pictures and a lot of toys and games and
stuff like that so I do think this could
help potentially a quite a few people
that I know one of my good friends she
has kept all her Diaries from when she
was a kid yeah and even though they have
they have moved house a couple times
like she does have a lot of the same
stuff like she mentioned a pen that her
grandfather gave her like when she was
seven years old and she was like this is
going to be the pen that you use to sign
your first novel first thing to turn
your first novel she was a writer at the
time um so yeah and yeah quite a few
people that I know they still generally
keep stuff at their parents house or
even live at their parent
but you know we come from different
different backgrounds and we know
different types of people I think I
think it's also okay I mean in some ways
it reflects globalization neoliberalism
the 21st century economy the digital
economy and everything else and it
reflects also the kind of glory of being
able to send your resume by email to
apply for jobs all over the world there
was one guy I met in England and then
like five years later he got a job right
next to me in Western Canada I was just
a coincidence you know things like that
happen to like oh hey yeah last time I
saw you we were both living in England
now we're both living on the west coast
of Canada you know things like that
happen to and in some ways that's
buzzing here oh yeah oh yeah hey I've
bumped into someone who ten years ago at
the airport so unsure but like I think
specialization itself kind of leads to
this nomadic life where you can own very
little whether or not it's a matter of
choice so you should come back I mean me
as a particular example I don't plan to
represent my generation or anything but
you know he said before I was really
involved input of studies I was a
scholar but as myself I knew a lot about
the scholars of Buddhism so if somebody
like that finds a gig in Hong Kong and
then a couple years later they found a
gig in California I mean in the whole
world globally there are only a few
opportunities for Buddhist scholars to
pursue or they can create their own
opportunities so to some extent but yeah
those guys are always on the move and
that's just one specialized field I've
known whether it's anthropologists or
people in politics or people in the arts
you know I've known a lot of and there
they never stopped moving
you know so the other thing is now look
I mean there's also prefigures my
engagement Buddhism so I was so I've
never had a period in my life like that
this book would would pertain to have
never had appeared in life or I'd
amassed enough that I need to give stuff
away or throw stuff away or
what-have-you but I mean for me starting
as a teenager you know some of this and
not others but you know I had no
furniture in my bedroom I slept on the
floor and I talked about why that was so
I didn't consider myself a minimalist
you know sudden the floor on very very
few possessions for many years so in
university I would only ever own three
pairs of pants three shirts three
jackets through like I had a maximum of
three for each own of clothing so at all
I just wore
lack black suits with black business
suit with a white shirt and a black tie
and a gray topcoat yeah like a certain
amount of each way less right wait I
think I think way more spare right and
that was before I got involved with but
his philosophy you know what I mean just
being involved with philosophy period
that was the way I chose to live my life
now there were a lot of things I mean it
also really reflects so we got a
question from the audience only three
socks no no I had more than one one
three percent part of the thing about
that was like you know if one of the
pairs of pants is dirty or ripped or
something I got a soda then you know you
got to have enough enough of something
to cope with with with some stuff but no
I had more than three socks yeah and I
don't think I'll it ever limited myself
on on socks oh good good point Touche
Touche Curtis well spotted anyway you
know so I own Burley I've never owned
right now I do not own a single
photograph of any of my own grandparents
neither on paper nor digitally you know
I don't own a single photograph of
myself as a baby neither on paper nor
digitally so you know starting at a
pretty early age but the real difference
between me and Mary condo and again
between me and the real minimalist
because I don't regard Mary condos and
minimalist the people were on YouTube
talking about minimalism I really think
their condo is a significantly different
ideology but I actually do not think my
life in making those decisions I don't
think it's something other people
shouldn't emulate I see a lot more
tragedy than triumph in that decision in
that path I walked now okay to mention I
won't go into much depth here but you
know I was horrified when I met other
young people my age both male and female
[Music]
got questions coming in life you how
many socks exactly did I didn't count I
didn't get so therefore therefore
countless you know I was I was really
shocked when I met young
and aqui at least one young woman mage
and they could not sleep within a long
list of bizarre things so there was one
girl she couldn't sleep without her
comfort her and her duvet this whole
complex set up you know and I met a
couple boys would they couldn't sleep
without music playing continuously while
they were asleep and a list of you know
bizarre requirements and stuff and I was
really and you know I really trained
myself I wanted to be able to lie down
and sleep on a floor with nothing with
no pillow without blanket so that when
the time comes and I needed to I could
you know now this really reflects it
does it does partly reflect
philosophical interests of mine reading
ancient Greek and Latin philosophy o
Devi but it also reflects the political
view of the world I grew up with that
World War three was coming that extreme
political strife and struggle was coming
and like you know you and I just
unrelatable you know when we look at the
assassination and these major figures
like Martin Luther King jr. or something
you know part of me in terms of the
childhood upbringing at is is is kind of
screaming and so I'd like didn't they
know it's how to you know shave their
head adopt a false identity sleep in the
ghetto disappeared when we watch
casablanca we watch casablanca and sorry
so the the the propagandist character
not the main character story so the
woman's husband in casablanca i'm
forgetting his name yeah i also forget
anyone but there's this character who's
who's running away from Nazi persecution
but he's living the high life
he's at the baccarat table you know he's
gambling he's staying in fancy hotels
he's keeping a high profile and looking
and thinking don't you know to go sleep
on the floor sleep with a ghetto
disappear you know to be so it's kind of
this this sense of that you know your
life if you take yourself seriously as a
political person you kind of always had
to be prepared to join the French
Resistance I mean how to keep it with it
because of like reason you had to be
prepared for unforeseeable extreme
circumstances and someone see I was
partly to that that I really wanted to
train myself to sleep on the floor with
no blanket with no pillow I did go
through a period of time I should sleep
naked on the floor with no without
liking the hill so I didn't even have
pajamas or anything on yeah it's hard
but you get used to it
you know they thought of that so yeah
really my reasons it concerns are very
different from
memo's or meri condo but with all that
having been said whether you come at it
from a Buddhist angle or a totally
European philosophical angle or a
political angle or a preparedness angle
or a substrate ago
you know fundamentally if you don't have
a ton of stuff to throw away this advice
is just kind of meaningless to you and
the core of the advice is if you own few
enough items you don't have to organize
them that's really yeah she says you
don't have to tidy each day if you're a
twice a year yeah right do this huge
right right but look I mean no you don't
have to organize your closet when you
only own three pairs of pants is what
comes into you right right well or if
it's you know look oh yeah those are the
pants I wore yesterday therefore these
are the pants I'm wearing tomorrow yeah
you know your your life is your life is
simple but IIIi don't think other people
should live the way I live you want me I
really I don't believe in it the fact
that I did it and the fact that I live
by it doesn't mean I believe in it you
know I'm a nihilist I don't even believe
in my own lifestyle choices I'm really
critical of him I really see the
disadvantages you see what if some said
what is it ya know I think it could help
my parents but my mom would actually she
wouldn't buy into like the Animus stuff
but I think she doesn't need help
getting rid of things is what she needs
to find something you know Marie Kondo
does mention this in the book like when
you need to find a pair of scissors you
have to shuffle through your drawers and
try to figure out where things are so I
do think it can be helpful for some
people just not not really taking her
advice like as gospel but I'm using some
of some of the yeah some of her work as
inspiration to get rid of you some some
stuff you know like they're they're
planning on moving eventually but
they've lived in this house for 24 years
and they've amassed a ton of things I
mean and I think that's a problem with
people who have kids and you know are
just in in one house throughout the kids
years it's easy to amass a lot of your
your home can become a museum for left
behind items for your children yeah yeah
you know this came up in my earlier
videos against minimalism but Mary Kondo
she has this unique idea you should only
keep things if they spark joy and I do
think indirectly that's part of her
animus thing you know you touch the item
you talk to the item it speaks to you
you know it's first or whatever so you
know this is this is her her
philosophical approach to life but you
know for me there are real questions
about productivity
you know Kay you want to be an artist if
you want to paint canvases you have a
studio full of all kinds of crap yeah
like stuff you know yes paint
yes paintbrushes but when you have visit
some artists studios there's some words
they like you many more why do you have
a bunch of spheres of different sizes
and there's gonna be an answer oh well
sometimes to check the perspective of
something you know what they're just you
know weird objects around that have all
kinds of other uses you know foreseen
and unforeseen Anytus but you have to
amass you know I can't even call it
equipment but you know stuff if you do a
lot of odd jobs around their house right
Mary Kondo obviously doesn't you know
repair car engines yes something you
know but I mean likewise I think when
you look at it that in that sense of
kind of productivity rather than joy I
think you very rapidly expand the scope
for how much was shown and that's one of
the reasons why I'm critical of myself
like even I you know I wish I owned
things I don't own and sometimes things
I did own in the past and I'd to part
ways with because I could use them
productively she's very schedule with
that she's very skeptical you're ever
gonna read a book do you have on a shelf
for ten years I go we'll just throw away
these books because you can buy them
again any one part of the book that you
just mentioned recently because of all
of what you've studied you've had a lot
of notes that you've had to throw away
that write probably would be useful to
read or at least you would like to look
back on that right and she's very
skeptical that she really says no notes
you've taken from University lectures
well maybe I maybe I'm the one person of
a million just but the same way an
artist really may make productive use of
objects that seem completely
unproductive maybe someone who's really
a scholar or really cares about whatever
the topic is really would make
productive use so to those notes or
those books or whatever even place it in
the Shelf I got an email from Nicholas
Osler an author whose work I've
contributed to in the past
Nicholas Hustler just moved house in
moved 14,000 books his personal library
is 14,000 volumes including ancient
Greek Latin Persian pally Sanskrit
Chinese a lot of language that in you
know endangered languages to different
different people make make different
lifestyle choices yeah yeah but I think
I don't know maybe maybe I don't want to
be like overselling like you like but
you do have a very good memory I really
don't think you go back and read many of
the books that you've read because like
you can really give me an accurate
summary of things that you've read right
budget last night we were talking about
wealth of nations and you were like yeah
really giving me like exactly what Adam
Smith it ii i read 20 years ago where's
my but ya know that is true but if i
want to write an essay i got to be able
to cite page numbers so there's nothing
but look and the only thing was gonna
save a productivity i mean it really is
a tokyo centered book and philosophy she
says oh well if you ever need one of
these things look at you know throw it
all this stuff even in the future you
ever actually this thing you can just go
out and buy it yeah well that's true if
you live in downtown tokyo that's not
true if you live in saskatchewan canada
that's not true if you live in a lot of
places a lot of stuff was like well you
know she's talking about throwing out
like tools well you slept and it's true
maybe you only use it once every five
years or something but no a lot of stuff
depending on where you live you can't
just go in and buy you know or maybe
downtown tokyo is the only place because
you were mentioning that it sees that
what the book is drug directed towards
are these people who are able to store
things at their parents house well
that's right now I'm living in China
with a quarter of what I only and
seventy other seventy five percent is at
my parents so I guess she is kind of
speaking to me a bit yeah nutshell for
me I was expecting this book to be a
minimalist attack on the sentimentality
of owning objects and it's not if
anything it's an animist right and to
like have each item get more praise or
more just attention from you then it's
really like an animist
transcendentalist approach to
sentimentalizing objects to be even
more sentimental about your
relationships with the inanimate objects
you own and with the environment you
live in yeah so is that the future is
the future revival of animism and the
decadent West I doubt it no but you know
I think I think her tendency to say that
you can just throw things out is that a
lot of things that people do own are
disposable or just you know not as good
of quality as they used to be or and I'm
just like with with technology like you
know you like I do have a laptop that is
eight years old
and I'm like why am I even holding onto
it because like what is the point and
you know that's not gonna be useful and
20 years from now yeah where is like you
know I - all yeah well it's another
peculiar irony though the people I see
praising Marie Kondo including Maude
vegan my great enemy you're on you know
my fellow vegan YouTube or I sometimes
cross swords with and debates you're on
YouTube but you know Maude vegan
represents zero waste minimalism that's
really not what this book is this book
if anything is its maximizing your waste
and it's openly admitting if you live
this way you will more often have to go
out and buy things that you did own in
the past but you got rid of so you could
live you know in this aesthetic and
magical those users yeah living the life
that you envisioned yeah yeah but this
is not an ecological paradigm this is
not a zero waste proton and this is not
really a minimalist paradigm as Mary
Kondo herself says this is an argument
that's centrally based on joy and her
peculiar distinctly Shinto Tokyo
Japanese bourgeois philosophy of where
joy comes from and apparently it comes
from empty shelves yeah yeah I guess I
can I can't be critical of it because
you know not a lot of people will not
find that their life has more magic in
it you know she talks about the magic of
tidying up or that they let your life
will improve so much you'll know one
quote was that she left her husband Oh
satisfied customers include the woman
who left her husband because when she
was done hiding her house she decided to
get rid of
yeah it won't work for everybody yeah I
don't think it's the case that everybody
will benefit from tossing stuff that
they don't want anymore but anyway yeah
so and in related news a ballast Yale
Broadcasting Corporation is bringing out
a t-shirt and a children's storybook so
buy all our stuff and alright that's a
wrap